Now let's think again about the possible storage options that we have for the cash.
So the default option in Lavell is to use the file system.
So this has been configured inside the cash BHP file.
It will use an environment variable cash driver but if it's not specified it will just use the file
system.
And also inside your dot and file by default the cash driver should also be file.
Now if you will use the file system as your cash this will this would be actually stored inside your
project directory inside the storage framework cash Data folder.
So the benefits of that are basically known.
The only benefit might be that you can easily get started.
If you're just learning you do not have to set up any servers it just walks out of the box but downsides
are plenty.
The access to the disk is slower than the reading from memory.
Also when you will release your applications like the next versions or whatever.
So each time you will somehow put the new version of your project.
You will have to keep in mind done replacing your old directory.
We have a new one if you will replace or remove this data folder you will basically lose all your cache.
Now another option is to use my sequel which basically is also not very beneficial because we are already
using my sequel for our eloquent models.
So basically this won't be a performance game anymore.
And the problem with using file and my sequel is that those two storage types doesn't support the cash
tax.
So we haven't learned about the cash tax yet.
But to say it's simply cash tax are used to signal to the lack of cash that some of the cash keys are
also part of a bigger group.
For example if we will on our Web site if we are cash are certain blog post or we will cash our list
of most commented blog posts whenever you will change on a title of the blog post you might are the
cash stuck to this page where we cash the whole content.
And also you might add the same cash tag to the list of most commented blog posts.
So whenever the title changes it will be both reflected on those caches because they will be basically
reset.
So you can do that using tax.
So that's quite beneficial.
So not having the tax functionality is a big downside of those two storage mechanism the file system
and my Eskew well now.
Now you should probably only consider using either Redis or main cast as your cash storage because they
are both fast.
They both will keep the data inside memory which is much faster than having to read or stored the data
inside the disk.
Even the SSD which basically my sequel and file storage is will do now setting up Redis or MapQuest
might be quite complicated for unexperienced developers.
That's why we didn't do that as our first task anyway.
If you feel comfortable with setting this up you can do it on yourself.
There are tools that provide Redis already bundled and this is for example larval homestead which would
run as a virtual machine.
And will it include Redis.
And there is also a lot of valid which is only available for Mac.
You can also run run run it using Docker if you know what you will be doing.
But for all the other guys that are using different systems and do not really know or don't want to
bother with setting up Redis just for this course the best option will be to use one of the cloud solutions
and one of them is the Redis labs which provides a free account where you can grab Redis database with
30 megabytes of storage for free forever.
So that should be plenty for our course and our needs.
So let's go ahead grab an account and I guide you through on how to set everything up.
Now you can start by pressing this button and typing your e-mail address
this should open a new window and then you will have to wait for an e-mail that you will get from the
Redis labs to activate their account.
Now after you get the email you need to open it of course and press activate now.
Now you should choose the cloud option.
It says that it has a 30 megabyte free trail but of course it is actually for free
so let's put some details.
Doesn't really matter what you will choose.
You can use some real data or not real provide some password agree to the terms and continue.
Well actually the password has to be complicated so let's provide something more secure apparently they
want a lowercase letters uppercase letters numbers and special characters
now you will have to press create your subscription and select this plan.
Because this includes the free 30 megabyte megabyte plan so press select now choose the cash option.
And from this list select the 30 megabyte free account.
And here you will provide a database name.
Let it be cash or press continue.
Actually it does with subscription name so it doesn't really matter.
Here we will provide our database name.
So this could be cash.
Now it will suggest a password which we can later see so now you can just press activate
after some time.
It will after some time here.
Now you will have to wait and after some time you will see an end point here.
We should be there address.
You should use as your readies host.
And then here you will see your Redis password.
So this would also be used in the Redis configuration.
Now we are all done basically with creating our ready server.
It's actually running right now.
Now let's configure Redis inside larval so what we will do is we'll just copy those credentials.
So first we start with an end point that you will have to put here as a redis host.
Now copy the password
the port can stay the same.
Now you are basically almost all set and the only thing you have to do is as it says inside the larval
documentation it is using the P Redis libraries.
So you have to install it so you can copy this fragment and now open the terminal inside the visual
studio code and type composer require and paste the library name.
Now it will take a little bit to install but after it's installed we'll continue
ok the installation was successful so we can go back to the configuration and the last thing that you
will have to change is the cache driver.
As I've said by default it is file and we have other cache drivers inside Lavell and what we want to
use is the Redis driver which is using the connection defined inside under the cash key.
So let's copy the Redis paste it here and basically you are all set.
Now let's go back to our application and see if that would work.
Now if you see this error error DP index is out of range.
It is because we are missing one setting and inside the database connection you can see that there is
a setting called redis cache DP which by default is 1.
And in case of the ready slap we have to set it to 0.
So that's just an index of the database.
So set it to zero.
Inside the dot and file and now when you refresh the page you will see that the cache is actually working.
Now it took a while to connect to the Redis.
Now inside the blog post page you can see that our counter is working but generally using Redis is always
the fastest option might not be that this free account is extremely fast.
Apparently it's not very fast but if you will have ready set up on your production server it will definitely
be much faster than using our file system.
Now finally what you have to know is that using Redis or remain cached is required to use the tax functionality
of the larval cache and we will get to that inside them next lecture.